---
title: "RES Training Notes"
date: 2015-03-24T08:28:44Z
lastmod: 2020-05-23T21:44:57Z
categories:
  - "No Category"
  - "Uncategorized"
aliases:
  - "/2015/03/24/res-notes/"
  - "/2015/03/24/res-notes/feed/"
  - "/2015/03/24/res-notes/feed/index.html"
---

**Prerequisites**

- RES: .NET 2
- only for Cached User Settings is .NET 4 required.

**Tips**

- Always try to reproduce an issue in an empty database.
- Always configure re-branding.

**Best Practices:**

- Split database is new production environments, keep the default name the wizard returns "\<name pri db\>\_2nd".
- Reserve a Named Licenses for laptop users when mixing the licenses.
- Define the Home drive in AD (user/gpo etc.) even-though it's possible to configure in RES.
- Email Settings:
  - Always set the setting create once
  - When setting the "Enable offline use" setting, make sure the folder exists on the target device (E.g. GPO or Automation Manager)
  - Signatures, make sure you select the correct version!
- Make drive reservations for dives used. (E.g. C: / D: / H:-Home Drive)
  - Set the "Do not perform mapping operation"
- Don't redirect AppData
- When testing with zero profile, make the user member of "local guests" a temp profile will be used and this wil make your live easier.
- Try to capture the user settings as much as possible on application level instead of global level.
- Always enable Memory optimization.
- Always enable Instant Logoff for XenApp

**SCCM Deployments** Export key HKLM\SOFTWARE\RES\Workspace Manager, this can be used for SCCM deployments. **Admin bypass** Set the follwoing advanced setting, "Bypass composer for accounts matching: DOMAIN\*admin\*". If the user is member of the local Administrators group RES personalisation will not be applyed. **Splash Screen** Composition \> Desktop \> Lockdown and Behavior \> "splash"

- Hide main splash screen at session start, end and refresh
- Hide mini splash screen at application start

**Environment variables**

- deskpic
- $adinfo(email), $adinfo(firstname) etc.
- $autocount(\<minimumvalue\>-\<maximumvalue\>)
- $substring(%var%, start, length)

**Background options**

- Add pictures to database (Composition \> Desktop \> Background) and set deskpic variable
- \*.jpg & \*.bmp NOT \*.png
- Limit "Change Desktop Background" in Workspace Preferences to pre-configured pictures (Lockdown and Behavior, "back")

**Emergency Exit (Alleen RES Shell)**

- Rechtsboven in de hoek, 1x1 pixel klikken.

**PWRMENU or "Personal Settings"**

- From Workspace Manager 2012 and up in new installations the folder "Personal Settings" is being used.
- When upgrading from an older version to the latest PWRMENU will still be used.

**User Settings**

- Fine-tune as much as possible, only capture the necessary settings.
- Try to keep the profile \< 2MB
- UPR(2) - Registry Settings
- UPF(2) - Filesystem changes

**Remote Assistance**

- To get this working on Server versions make sure to install the remote assistance feature (not installed by default).
